To go to the recipe detail page when we click a recipe item, we can use a feature you already know. You
can go to the ion-item you're rendering in the recipes page which is the item you want to make clickable
and you could add a click listener and navigate programmatically but you can also just use Router link
here as you can do in a normal Angular app and that is really amazing. In Ionic 2 and 3, you had to use
Ionic's own navigation solution for going to different parts of the app and it did use Angular for
to components but added its own navigation.
Now Ionic fully embraces Angular and it will do the same for React and Vue by the way
and that means that you don't have to keep an eye on Ionic and update when that changes and keep an
eye on Angular and maybe you're not able to update Angular because Ionic didn't update yet,
instead you now only depend on Angular. You use native Angular features, like Angular routing as it is
baked into Angular and Ionic only takes care about offering a nice page transition, a nice animation,
things like that but it gets out of the way when it comes to the heavy lifting.
So here, we can just enter a link
we want to go to when this item is tapped and I want to go to a dynamic link of course because the ID
I want to load differs. So I will bind this with square brackets to property binding and then, we pass
an array of segments in here and we can add a relative link here, ./ and then recipe.id
and this will now go to
/recipes, recipe.id.
Now let's see if it works,
if we save that, this page will reload and now if we tap this, we go to this page and you have a nice
animation for this page
transition out of the box.
Now going back would also be nice
right,
where's the back button?
Well the back button has to be added separately,
so you can control whether you want to have a back button on a page or not.
Now if we have a look at the Ionic docs and we go to components, then you will see that if you go all
the way down to the toolbar,
there is the ion-back-button.
Now that back button here has to be included like this,
you wrap it in an ions-buttons component actually which you would also use for other buttons in the
toolbar, for different actions and you will give it a slot of start to position it on the default starting
position of the platform,
typically that is on the left but depending on the platform or on the region people are using your app
in, it could also be on the right. So here,
I will now add ion-buttons in the toolbar and give that a slot of start and in there, I'll add my
ion-back-button. Now on that ion-back-button,
you can also set a default ref attribute here for cases where this page here we are on, the recipe
detail page, was loaded as a first page because since this is a web app, we can of course reload this
page and boom, here we are
and then we have no previous page in Ionic's history so to say. It keeps track of our navigation moves
but if we reload the app, it reloads that stored stack of pages it thinks in and therefore, we can give
this a default back link where we say OK, if you loaded this app and you don't know where we've
been previously because maybe we haven't been anywhere previously,
then I want to go to /recipes here let's say.
So if we save all of that, as this app reloads here, we have the back button and we do go back.
Now if I reload on this page here, let's try it the other way round,
now if I go here, we got the back buttons as well.
Now you will notice, at least right now if I tap anywhere else, we don't navigate again.
And right now this is a known bug, maybe already fixed when you're viewing this, it is related to a relative
path being used here and
you can simply fix it by using an absolute path here.
And for now, this is the easiest work around,
use an absolute path for navigation
and with that being used, you can go back, forth and back as often as you want to the different pages.
So this is how we can navigate around
and again most important takeaway, you use Angular features and Ionic just adds animations and Ionic
also keeps track of your navigation moves,
it constructs a stack of pages under the hood so to say so that it knows that you now have a previous
page you haven't gone back to and you can go back by clicking the back button because if you didn't
reload the page here, then this back button will even work without the default ref,
if I temporarily remove that,
you see as this page reloads now, it will not work and not display because it doesn't know where we've previously
been.
If I started on recipes, now I do have the button because now Ionic keeps track of that for us.
But more on that in the routing and navigation module where we will dive deeply into how navigation
works,
also how we can integrate tabs and so on.